Now that we know how the three
languages are similar,
let's look at how they're different.
R and Python are open source and
free, Matlab is not.
Contributing packages to R is
a more standardized process.
R is seeing an incredible growth in
the number of package contributions.
In this graph,
we see on the x-axis, the year.
And in the y-axis,
the number of contributed packages.
The y-axis is displayed on the log
scale and the linear trend here,
shows an exponential increase in
the number of contributed packages.
R's standardized process of
contributing packages has led to
a large group of motivated contributors
who contribute high quality packages.
R syntax is more suitable for
statistics and
data, as it was originally designed for
that purpose.
Finally, R has better graphics
capabilities than both Python and
Matlab.
R is popular in statistics,
bio-statistics and
social sciences communities.
In particular, Matlab is very popular
in engineering and applied math.
Python is popular for data analysis.
But in addition, it's also popular for
web development and scripting.